Restore procedure docs description (#3300)
scylladb/scylla-manager: docs/source/restore/index.rst

   :hidden:
   :maxdepth: 2

   restore-tables
   restore-schema
   examples

.. contents::
   :depth: 2

>    :local:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   :local:

The Restore procedure allows you to restore the data from a Scylla Manager Backup to a *new* ScyllaDB cluster.

The restore procedure has three steps:
- Downloading the SSTbales files from the backup location to each of the new cluster nodes (tzach: each of the nodes? few of the nodes?)
- Starting the Scylla process, which reads these SSTabkes and streams the parsed data to the correct nodes internally using the [Load and Stream feature](https://docs.scylladb.com/stable/operating-scylla/nodetool-commands/refresh.html#load-and-stream)
- Running a Repair process to sync the restore nodes.
```

Reviewer: I'm confused about `restore-tables` and `restore-schema`
should one run one before the other?

Author: You can find information about the order below:
```
Restore types
=============

Restore task has to be one of two types:

  * :doc:`restore tables <restore-tables>` - restores the content of the tables (rows)

  * :doc:`restore schema <restore-schema>` - restores the ScyllaDB cluster schema

Each of those types has required prerequisites and follow-up actions.
For more information, please read given restore type documentation.

If both the schema and the content of the tables need to be restored, you must start with restoring the schema. Only after the schema is successfully restored can you proceed with restoring the content of the tables.

```

Author: The processes of restoring schema/tables are located in their own subsections.

> Using :ref:`sctool restore <sctool-restore>` command, you can schedule a restore of backed-up data into a cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :ref:`sctool restore <sctool-restore>` command allows you to schedule a restore of backed-up data into a cluster.
```

> The :ref:`sctool restore <sctool-restore>` command allows you to schedule a restore of backed-up data into a cluster.

Reviewer: Why would one need to schadule a restore?
IMHO restore can be a ad-hoc command only (at least in docs)

> Restore and backups are scheduled in the same manner, you can start, stop, resume, and track task progress on demand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Restore and backups are scheduled in the same manner:  you can start, stop, resume, and track task progress on demand.
```

.. note:: Restore procedure works with any cluster topologies, so backed-up cluster can have different number of nodes than restore destination cluster.

Restore types
=============

Restore task has to be one of two types:

>   * :doc:`restore tables <restore-tables>` - restores tables' contents (rows)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :doc:`restore tables <restore-tables>` - restores the content of tables (rows)
```

>   * :doc:`restore schema <restore-schema>` - restores Scylla cluster schema

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * :doc:`restore schema <restore-schema>` - restores the ScyllaDB cluster schema
```

Each of those types has required prerequisites and follow-up actions.
For more information, please read given restore type documentation.

> In case both schema and tables' contents needs to be restored, start with restoring schema and only after it succeeds proceed with restoring tables' contents.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If both the schema and the content of the tables need to be restored, you must start with restoring the schema. Only after the schema is successfully restored can you proceed with restoring the content of the tables.
```

Features

> ========

Reviewer: ```suggestion
========

ScyllaDB Manager Restore command supports the following features:

```

> ========

Reviewer: Question: can one choose a date to restore from, or is it always from the last version?
In either case, it needs to be explictly documented

* Glob patterns to select keyspaces or tables to restore

> * Parallel restore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Control the :doc:`restore speed <restore/#restore-speed>` and granularity (batch size)
```

> * Control over restore granularity

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
See above

> * Dry run

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :doc:`Dry run <examples/#perform-a-dry-run-of-a-restore>` - Test the restore before live execution
```

> * Progress tracking

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Progress tracking - via Prometheus metrics and [Scylla Monitoring](https://monitoring.docs.scylladb.com) Manager dashboard
```

> * Pause and resume

Reviewer: Is the appy to the download step? straming step? not clear

Process
=======

> Restore procedure works iteratively over restored locations, manifests and tables.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Restore procedure works iteratively over backup locations, manifests and tables.
```

Reviewer: question: do the user need to provide the backup location?
If so why? the Manager knows where the info is

Author: Right now many SM functionalities regarding backup (like listing backups) requires user to specify locations. SM stores only current information about tasks backup locations, so it does not know any locations from deleted or updated tasks.

    * For each backup location:

>       * Await schema agreement

Reviewer: which schema agreemant? in the S3 bucket?
I do not get this step

Author: Schema agreement in restore destination cluster. Currently we can't be 100% sure that SSTables in backup location are in a state of schema agreement.

Author: Actually I don't think that this information is important enough to put it into docs.

      * Find live Scylla nodes that will be used for restoring current location

        * Find nodes local to location
        * If non can be found, find any node with location access

      * List backup manifests for specified snapshot tag

>       * For each manifest:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * For each manifest:
```

        * Filter relevant tables from the manifest
        * For each table:

          * Temporarily disable auto-compaction of current table

>           * Temporarily disable GC grace seconds of current table

Reviewer 3: PLACEHOLDER: it may not be temporarily, but we may require end-user to bring this value back after the repair.

          * Group SSTables to bundles by ID

>           * Join bundles into batches containing ``number of shards * batch size`` bundles each

Reviewer 3: I don't see a reason for including `numer_of_shards` into bundle size.
See https://github.com/scylladb/scylla-manager/pull/3331#discussion_r1147207544 from one of the open PRs.

**Example:**
Let's assume this is the content of single node table backup consist of...
```
drwxr-xr-x 2 karkok karkok     4096 mar 28 12:47 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 karkok karkok     4096 mar 28 12:46 ..
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     1090 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-CompressionInfo.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   531330 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Data.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok       10 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Digest.crc32
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      176 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Filter.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     1275 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Index.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    89460 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Scylla.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     4611 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Statistics.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      344 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-Summary.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      102 mar 28 12:46 md-2-big-TOC.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     1090 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-CompressionInfo.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   531325 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Data.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok       10 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Digest.crc32
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      176 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Filter.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     1275 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Index.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    88954 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Scylla.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     4611 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Statistics.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      344 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-Summary.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      102 mar 28 12:46 md-3-big-TOC.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   125954 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-CompressionInfo.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok 64862613 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Data.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok       10 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Digest.crc32
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    19544 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Filter.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   171328 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Index.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    90296 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Scylla.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     4611 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Statistics.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    37112 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-Summary.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      102 mar 28 12:47 md-4-big-TOC.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   127874 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-CompressionInfo.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok 65854908 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Data.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok       10 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Digest.crc32
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    19840 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Filter.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   173957 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Index.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    90296 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Scylla.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     4611 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Statistics.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    37672 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-Summary.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      102 mar 28 12:47 md-5-big-TOC.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    91586 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-CompressionInfo.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok 47158286 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Data.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok       10 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Digest.crc32
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    14208 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Filter.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   124424 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Index.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    90296 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Scylla.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     4611 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Statistics.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    26984 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-Summary.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      102 mar 28 12:47 md-6-big-TOC.txt
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    88050 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-CompressionInfo.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok 45335526 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Data.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok       10 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Digest.crc32
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    13664 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Filter.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok   119595 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Index.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    90296 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Scylla.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok     4611 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Statistics.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok    25944 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-Summary.db
-rw-r--r-- 1 karkok karkok      102 mar 28 12:47 md-7-big-TOC.txt
```

We have 42 SSTables here.
Setup of the destination cluster is 5 nodes 32 shards each.
Default batch_size is 2.
It means that single bundle may contain 64 SSTables.

==> it generally means that only one node will be participating in the restore, because it will pickup all table sstables.
4 other nodes will be in the `idle` state.
